.TH MANAGE-VNC-SERVERS.SH 1 "2026-07-01" "mu2edaq-shifter-tools" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
manage-vnc-servers.sh \- start, stop, or restart VNC servers on the noVNC manager host
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B manage-vnc-servers.sh
{\fBstart\fR|\fBstop\fR|\fBrestart\fR}
[\fB\-H\fR \fIhost\fR]
[\fB\-u\fR \fIuser\fR]
[\fB\-P\fR \fIports\fR]
[\fB\-y\fR]
[\fB\-n\fR]
[\fB\-h\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B manage-vnc-servers.sh
connects over ssh to the noVNC manager host as a service account and
runs \fBsystemctl \fIaction\fB vncserver@:\fIport\fB.service\fR for
each configured VNC display port, in a single ssh session.
.PP
Because starting, stopping, or restarting these services can
disconnect anyone currently using that display, the script asks for
confirmation before doing anything unless \fB\-y\fR/\fB\-\-yes\fR is
given. When run non-interactively (no controlling terminal) without
\fB\-y\fR, it refuses to proceed.
.PP
Output from each port's systemctl invocation is reported individually
as \fB:PORT -> OK\fR or \fB:PORT -> FAILED\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
Configuration precedence is command line, then environment variable,
then built-in default.
.TP
.BR start | stop | restart
Required. The systemctl action to run against every configured port.
.TP
.BR \-H ", " \-\-host " " \fIHOST\fR
Remote host to connect to. Environment: \fBVNC_HOST\fR. Default:
\fImu2e\-mgr\-01.fnal.gov\fR.
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-user " " \fIUSER\fR
SSH user. Environment: \fBVNC_USER\fR. Default: \fImu2ecr01\fR.
.TP
.BR \-P ", " \-\-ports " " \fIPORTS\fR
Space- or comma-separated list of VNC display port numbers to act on.
Environment: \fBVNC_PORTS\fR. Default: \fI"4 5 6 7 8 9"\fR.
.TP
.BR \-y ", " \-\-yes
Skip the confirmation prompt.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-dry\-run
Print the ssh/systemctl commands that would be run for each port,
and exit without connecting.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show a usage summary and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B VNC_HOST ", " VNC_USER ", " VNC_PORTS
See OPTIONS above.
.SH EXAMPLES
Preview a restart of the default ports without changing anything:
.PP
.RS
.EX
manage-vnc-servers.sh restart --dry-run
.EE
.RE
.PP
Restart only display :4, skipping the confirmation prompt:
.PP
.RS
.EX
manage-vnc-servers.sh restart -P 4 -y
.EE
.RE
.PP
Stop all default displays interactively:
.PP
.RS
.EX
manage-vnc-servers.sh stop
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR start-novnc-connection.sh (1),
.BR systemctl (1),
.BR ssh (1)
