.TH START-NOVNC-CONNECTION.SH 1 "2026-07-01" "mu2edaq-shifter-tools" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
start-novnc-connection.sh \- open a tunnel to the noVNC manager and browse a session dashboard
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B start-novnc-connection.sh
[\fB\-H\fR \fIhost\fR]
[\fB\-u\fR \fIuser\fR]
[\fB\-J\fR \fIproxy_jump\fR]
[\fB\-p\fR \fIlocal_port\fR]
[\fB\-r\fR \fIremote_port\fR]
[\fB\-P\fR \fIpassword_file\fR]
[\fB\-n\fR]
[\fB\-h\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B start-novnc-connection.sh
opens an SSH tunnel from a free local port to port 443 (by default) on
the noVNC manager host, logged in as the current user unless
overridden. Once the tunnel is accepting connections, the plain
session-list page normally served at \fBhttps://localhost:\fIlocal_port\fR
is fetched and scraped, and its links are rendered into a
self-contained, modern-looking "dashboard" HTML page with one card per
VNC session. That generated page, not the raw session list, is what
gets opened in the browser.
.PP
If a VNC password file is found (see \fB\-P\fR below), each card's link
is built with noVNC's \fBpassword\fR and \fBautoconnect=true\fR query
parameters so the session connects automatically instead of prompting
for a password.
.PP
The tunnel, and the temporary directory holding the generated
dashboard file, are torn down when the script exits, whether via
Ctrl-C, the ssh session dying, or normal termination.
.SH OPTIONS
Configuration precedence is command line, then environment variable,
then built-in default.
.TP
.BR \-H ", " \-\-host " " \fIHOST\fR
Remote host to tunnel to. Environment: \fBNOVNC_HOST\fR. Default:
\fImu2e\-mgr\-01.fnal.gov\fR.
.TP
.BR \-u ", " \-\-user " " \fIUSER\fR
SSH user. Environment: \fBNOVNC_USER\fR. Default: the current user.
.TP
.BR \-J ", " \-\-proxy\-jump " " \fIHOST\fR
SSH ProxyJump host used to reach the remote host (passed to
.BR ssh (1)
as \fB\-J\fR). The special value \fBnone\fR (or an empty string)
disables the jump host. Environment: \fBNOVNC_PROXY_JUMP\fR. Default:
\fImu2egateway01.fnal.gov\fR when the remote host is
\fImu2e\-mgr\-01.fnal.gov\fR, otherwise no jump host is used.
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-port " " \fIPORT\fR
Local port for the tunnel. Environment: \fBNOVNC_LOCAL_PORT\fR.
Default: an automatically chosen free port.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-remote\-port " " \fIPORT\fR
Remote port to forward to. Environment: \fBNOVNC_REMOTE_PORT\fR.
Default: \fI443\fR.
.TP
.BR \-P ", " \-\-password\-file " " \fIFILE\fR
Path to a file whose first line is the VNC password. When present,
it is used to build auto-connecting session links. Environment:
\fBNOVNC_PASSWORD_FILE\fR. Default: \fI~/.novnc_password\fR; if the
file does not exist, links are generated without a password and
without auto-connect. If the file is readable by group or other, a
warning is printed recommending \fBchmod 600\fR, but the password is
still used.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-dry\-run
Print the ssh command and target URL that would be used, and exit
without opening a tunnel or a browser.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show a usage summary and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B BROWSER
If set, used to launch the dashboard page. Falls back to
.BR xdg-open (1)
on Linux, or
.BR open (1)
on macOS.
.TP
.B NOVNC_HOST ", " NOVNC_USER ", " NOVNC_PROXY_JUMP ", " NOVNC_LOCAL_PORT ", " NOVNC_REMOTE_PORT ", " NOVNC_PASSWORD_FILE
See OPTIONS above.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.novnc_password
Default location for the VNC password used to build auto-connecting
session links. Should be readable only by the owner
(\fBchmod 600\fR).
.SH EXAMPLES
Open a tunnel with all defaults:
.PP
.RS
.EX
start-novnc-connection.sh
.EE
.RE
.PP
Preview the ssh command without connecting:
.PP
.RS
.EX
start-novnc-connection.sh --dry-run
.EE
.RE
.PP
Enable auto-connecting session links:
.PP
.RS
.EX
echo "mypassword" > ~/.novnc_password
chmod 600 ~/.novnc_password
start-novnc-connection.sh
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR manage-vnc-servers.sh (1),
.BR ssh (1)
